So I wanna list down all of the Core
Streams that are available in mode
both to give you an idea for
maybe what you can poke around at and
also just to show you where they all are,
what they're good for.
So, we've seen a bunch of these already.
We've seen fs.createReadStream( ),
we've seen fs.createWriteStream( ).
We've also seen process standard in and
process standard out.
But there's also standard error,
err, which is used for
writing to file descriptor two, I think.
Which is just the extra spammy info
messages you can print to the terminal.
If you wanna put errors there,
it's a good place to put them.
Also if you create a child process,
there's a node module and
I need just show how that works.
Called child process.
So it has some methods as spawn and
I forget exactly what they are,
but we'll just pull up the spawn and exec.
So we'll use the spawn method right
now to run another program in a.
And we'll, we can write to it standard
input and read from it standard output.
So, for example,
if I spawn something like grep right.
So the first argument is the command name,
the grep, in this case.
The second argument is an array of the
command line arguments that you want to
pass in.
So I'll do grep for potato.
Now every time I write a line of input
to standard in on this process object.
That matches the string potato,
which could be a regex if you like,
then I should get that line on the output
so, I can write a couple of things.
Cheese, Carrots, carrot potato
Potato, so
the last two those automatch and
then I'll call end to tell
the program to end and
I can pipe ps.stdout just
to standard out normally.
So this little program is just
gonna watch that come in for us and
we can use all of the string methods
we've seen so far to deal with it.
So here we go.
We get, we ran the grep command,
piped in a lot of things,
but it only printed out the lines
that matched the string potato.
Just add that to the Repo.
>> [COUGH]
>> Okay, so
we've also seen net.connect and
net.createServer.
There's also tls.connect and
tls.createServer so
you can make SSL connections.
But then you have to generate certificates
it's a little bit complicated you have to
have to bust out some open
SSL commands and such.
So not going to do that right now.
But it's with air, those are both,
just like the net methods,
the TLS methods, return duplex streams
that work the same way that they work.
With net except you have to be a little
bit more careful about which part is
the plaintext, and
which part is the ciphertext.